so this will be a quick video on what's
known as virgin control and the specific
type of version control we're using is
get GI T and so if any of you ever do
any sort of programming ever again
you maybe maybe you don't have plans for
it but you'll you'll probably see
version control again and there's just
kind of some advantages and you can tell
you can tell exactly who did what and
when and that's just really so if
somebody makes it uh somebody changes a
piece of code and they break something
it's not really to blame them it's not
so they get in trouble it's just so you
can figure out what what exactly broke
and who broke it and what they were
trying to accomplish when they broke so
you can kind of sit down and meet and
say well what was going on what were you
trying to do is not really to get people
in trouble it's not that kind of tell
that kind of administrative telling of
who did what there's a more importantly
you can go back to any point and time so
this is this is really the most
important part of it you can you can go
back to any point in time so say I make
five or six code changes and somebody
else make some changes and somebody else
make some changes and then it turns out
okay we're we're not going to proceed
with that feature in this version we're
not going to pursue that let's we need
to go back to a point in time and then
there's all kinds of other things to
manage that so that's just the general
overview of what version control is and
why we want it the specific service that
we're going to use for this is just
called bit bucket so a bit bucket open
here and
just a little bit bigger so I sent you
invites and so just take your invites
and sign up with an account they should
be to your IRS C account so you'll only
see one team I have both teams the
events and healthcare management which
is another another project another
capstone so I click events and then you
can see all kinds of you can see these
are known as commits so every time the
source control or source code is changed
and we actually want to to check on it
we can click any this and see exactly
what happened so here I uploaded images
emerged some of the some of the stuff
from the from the template pages and
then we could actually see what was done
so let's I think we can view the
activity the very specific activity you
can see that ok this was exactly what
was done if I wanted to view site master
so say I wanted to and you can see this
is it's smart enough to know how to go
through and the stuff in the red is the
old and then the stuff in the green is
the new so that's all you probably won't
even touch that we'll probably just use
it to to go back to a specific time in
history if something messes up and it's
and I guess there's also the added
benefit that you can it's kind of a
central storage location that's kind of
easy to access so what you're going to
be doing initially is you're going to do
a clone so you click clone get this
address right here this is what what's
important so this from this HTTP all the
way down to this get right here and then
I'm going to hop into Visual Studio and
then so I Visual Studio open and I'm
going to make sure I'm in the in the
team Explorer view so Microsoft has its
own source control management and
revision control product it's called
Team Foundation we're not going to use
that because it's one of their
commercial project products and it's
it's going to require its own separate
server to set ups it's just it's just
typically easier to use a service like
bitbucket
or github or any in any of the other
ones out there there's a bunch of them
so what we'll do is so normally when
you're the solution Explorer but we want
to be in the team Explorer and what we
want what we want to do is clone so I
click clone and this is the place it's
going to put it that's fine for now I
don't really I don't really care too
much so I put in that URL I just pasted
so you can see it's just the URL it's
HTTP so it's secure it's my username so
my bitbucket username is C Bakley
underscore IRS C and then don't worry
about this isn't an email address or
anything it's just saying this is the
domain and then this is kind of the and
this is actually should mention this
real quick even if you're not going to
program you go anyit you'll see this a
lot you'll see username at domain and
then and then some slashes and and this
is the directory and this is the
specific get file that has all the
information so don't worry about that
too much just I'm just going to click
clone and then it's going to basically
bring everything in as a as a project ok
so what happened if I click solution
Explorer I don't see anything yet right
I have to actually open it up now so
it's been cloned you can just go ahead
and double click and then I want to open
up the events SLN click that I may have
to double click and all of a sudden we
see it in the solution Explorer so I've
merged the site master I didn't get it
and the and this one right here the
events I didn't get a chance to do the
do the calendar yet but I'll merge that
soon and that'll probably its own
separate page but I'll show you how
essentially how this works so say this
there's a page in here that's just
called about I wanted to change this
I'm just going to change it to say like
events or something like that and then I
save it so you can see there's a little
red or red checkbox there and it says
okay we've changed we've changed this
and done something to it so we can do is
there's two ways we can either commit
and I know you can't see that so let me
see if I can
scooch this over just a little I'll
close that
okay so we can right-click and then
specifically commit this file or if
you've changed like five or six files
you just go right up here and then you
you can no source control we can do a
commit and I know you can't see that but
one of the menus that popped out was
commit but let's just commit the
individual file first let's let's do
that so I right click and then I go to
commit and then the type of commit I
want to do is so we go to actions so
what I'm going to do is we did have all
these so what I'm going to do oh that's
right so we have to add one of the
things that that's kind of typical that
you want to do is you want to put a
little message here so I just write
changed about page to have the events
name it's just a little a little nice
thing that way when you've had 30 or 40
or 100 commits in between you say okay I
wanted to figure out which one caused
the problem or that we need to revert
back to this was our kind of our good
put in point in time and we look at this
label and we say okay the events page
broke and this is this is the last time
the events page has been touched so
let's go back to this point so I'm going
to click the drop down so can get is
kind of funny it has a bunch of
different a bunch of different modes
we're going to do is we're going to do
the commit and push so commit actually
commits the file and then we can go up
into what that means it's not really
that important
but commit and push will actually push
it out to the server so we really want
to do both if we were to just commit
it's like only doing half the process
it's not actually going anywhere it's
just marked for commit on your computer
it's when we do the commit and push that
we that we actually send it to the
bitbucket server so you're going to
click that so successfully pushed and
then what we typically also want to do
is resync so if anybody else made
changes in between we can click sync and
then it syncs that up and now any any
time somebody opens their visual studio
the first thing they'll probably do is
click sync and then they'll get all my
changes so we didn't have to email
changes back and forth we did have to
put it on a shared drive nothing it's
just automatically there they open up
their visual studio and they just click
sync under team Explorer and then boom
they have all the changes and then we
can also do is we can go back to the
bitbucket website we can say okay let's
view all the commits what we can see I
just made a commit and then here's our
message changed about page to have
events name and then we can actually
view here and you can see right here are
the red stuff this is the old thing
it's your application description page
test and then the new thing is it says
events so hopefully that makes sense
it's not too tough to set up you can't
convert your old project so any any of
you that had your previous project as a
that you set up you'll just leave that
alone you're going to import the new
project from from the from that process
that I showed at the beginning of the
video